welcome back to photoshop basics on PSD
task plus I'm Martin / Henoch and in
this episode I'm going to talk about
smart objects this is similar to using
masks to be able to work completely
non-destructively I will show you an
example where I show nearly all the
advantages of working with smart objects
you can convert any layer into a smart
object I have this background photograph
and I have the windmill on a separate
layer I will right-click on the
vineyards layer and I will choose
convert to smart object from the menu
that will convert the layer into a smart
object and this is the icon for a smart
object if the thumbnails are larger you
will see that I can here on the bottom
right corner of the thumbnail I will
create a duplicate from this layer by
using the move tool and pressing down
the Alt key so there's a duplicate and
if you want to turn back a smart object
layer into a normal layer you can right
click again on the layer and choose
rasterize layer the only disadvantage of
a smart object is that you can't
directly draw on that layer or make
changes to it so if you use the brush
tool you will get a warning sign that
you can't draw on this layer but you can
draw on a rasterize layer like this of
course I don't want to do that now but
now I have a normal layer on the right
and the smart object on the left now
what is the first big difference between
the two if I select both of them and I
use my free transform tool and I make
them much smaller something like this
little windmills in the background and
then if I change my mind and I would
like to turn them back again in their
original size and I use the free
transform you will see that on the Left
we have a perfect quality but on the
right we lost the quality because of the
down sampling
the previous step so if I accept this
you can see that the smart object can
use always the original resolution while
another normal layer will always lose
quality when you use the free transform
tool this is a very important thing and
one of the main advantages of working
with Smart Objects so I will now just
delete this rasterized version I don't
need it
I will only use my smart object version
I will put a windmill here in the
foreground but I will make a duplicate
and I will put that in the background
make a small version something like this
I put that here in the background and I
will make a third version alt click and
drag put it here on the right make it a
little bit larger if this is the middle
ground then it should be a little bit
larger and I will use the free transform
tool to quickly reflect this layer by
pressing down the Alt key and clicking
here on the right control point I can
easily rotate it like this this is by
the way the flip horizontal option that
you also have in the menu edit transform
and flip horizontal so now I have three
versions and as you can see in the
layers panel all of them are smart
objects now the advantage of Smart
Objects is that if you duplicate them
they will share the same source if I
double click on any of these thumbnails
I will see the source image that I saved
when I created the first smart object if
I make changes on this and then I save
this embedded smart object source we
will see the changes appear on all the
instances at the same time so let's try
this I will arrange my documents to see
both images at the same time so this is
the image with the three windmills and
here on the Left we have the windmill
the source file of the smart object I
will create an adjustment layer in this
case I will use hue/saturation I turn on
colorize
turn down the lightness and I increase
saturation to turn it into completely
red but now I will go to my mosques
panel and I choose invert to invert the
mosque for the adjustment layer and then
I use my brush tool and I choose white
as my foreground color and I quickly
drew over parts of the VIN mail like
this to add some marks on it
now there's no change yet here on the
right in the original image I just make
this a little bit larger but if I come
back to the source image and I go to
file and choose save you will see that
all of the three instances will update
at the same time and the great thing
with the smart object is that you can
make another layered document for the
smart object and save all of those
layers into that smart object layer so I
can now close this image and you see
that we have the three instances and
they share the same source so the
adjustment layer is saved into the
source file which is a file that you
don't see in the same folder it is
embedded into the Photoshop document
file if you want to make a duplicate but
without sharing the same source you need
to right click on a layer and choose new
smart object via copy that will create a
new layer we can see that it's there I
can put it here and maybe make it a
little bit larger my best but now if I
double click on the thumbnail of this
layer and I turn off the hue/saturation
and I save this and I go back you see
this change will only affect this layer
because this has now a separate source
thanks to that option the new smart
object via copy and last but not least
another great feature with smart object
is using filters if you use filters on a
small
the object they will be completely added
non-destructively and they are called
Smart Filters so I will use a filter on
this layer and I will go to artistic and
I will choose cutout or maybe I should
use another filter called watercolor and
I click on OK and you see we apply this
filter but again this filter is
non-destructive because it's a smart
filter I can always turn it on and off
here in the layers panel or I can click
on the filters name to make changes to
it or replace it with another effect in
the following episodes I will talk more
about using smart filters for special
effects like simulating depth of field
or using sharpening in a smart way
thanks a lot for your attention and see
you next time
when we are going to talk about
sharpening photographs